Loan Applicants Analysis and Prediction
Project Overview
This project aims to analyze and predict the loan approval process based on various applicant features. By segmenting loan applicants and performing correlation analysis, we can gain insights into the factors that influence loan approvals. Additionally, we build a logistic regression model to predict the likelihood of loan approval based on these features.

Table of Contents
Loan Applicants Segmentation
Applicants Loan Approval Analysis
Correlation Analysis
Logistic Regression Model
Installation
Usage
Results
Contributing

Loan Applicants Segmentation
We begin by segmenting the loan applicants based on key features:

Income: Applicants are grouped by their income levels to identify trends.
Number of Dependents: Segmentation is done based on the number of dependents to observe any significant patterns.
Education: Applicants are categorized by their level of education.
Type of Employment: Differentiation is made between salaried, self-employed, and other types of employment.
Applicants Loan Approval Analysis
This section delves into how different features affect loan approval rates:

Rates of Loan Approval:
Education Level: Investigating how education influences approval.
Employment Status: Exploring the impact of being salaried or self-employed on loan approval.
Number of Dependents: Analyzing the relationship between dependents and loan approval likelihood.
CIBIL Score: Examining the role of CIBIL scores in the loan approval process.
Correlation Analysis
In this section, we perform a correlation analysis to test the significance of various relationships:

Income and Assets: Evaluating the correlation between an applicant's income and their asset ownership.
Asset Value and Loan Amount: Understanding how asset value influences the loan amount approved.
Asset Value and Loan Approval: Investigating whether higher asset values correlate with higher loan approval chances.
Income and Loan Amount: Exploring the relationship between income levels and the loan amount sanctioned.
CIBIL Rating and Loan Status: Analyzing the impact of CIBIL ratings on loan approval.
Loan Status and Self-Employment: Assessing how self-employment status affects loan approval.
Logistic Regression Model
We build a logistic regression model to predict loan approval:

Model Building: Using applicant features to predict the likelihood of loan approval.
Model Evaluation: Determining the accuracy and reliability of the model using various metrics.
Installation
To run this project, you will need:

Python 3.7 or higher
Jupyter Notebook
Required Libraries
Install the necessary libraries using pip:
pip install numpy pandas matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn
Usage
Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/loan-applicants-analysis.git
cd loan-applicants-analysis
Open the Jupyter Notebook:
jupyter notebook loan-applicants-analysis.ipynb
Run the notebook cells to execute the analysis and build the logistic regression model.

Results
The analysis reveals key insights into how different features influence loan approvals. The logistic regression model provides a reliable prediction of loan approval likelihood, with accuracy evaluated using standard metrics.

Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes.